Job Summary
This is a great career opportunity to join our dynamic and growing Personal Insurance Business Technology – Business Intelligence and Analytics group. You will join a design team focused on evolving our traditional data ecosystem to encompass hybrid cloud solutions and to fulfill data needs of traditional reporting, advanced analytics and real time model implementations. You will learn new concepts, refine your current skill base, developing new career goals and business acumen. The primary function of this position is to develop comprehensive designs and provide technological recommendations that support the development and implementation of business intelligence and analytics initiatives.

Primary Job Duties & Responsibilities

Development of designs supporting business intelligence and analytics for Personal Insurance Business Technology.
Ensure adherence to design guiding principles through team-led technical reviews.
Develop, adopt and communicate new concepts, ideas, techniques, best practices and technology capabilities.
Perform product evaluations, and Proof of Concepts.
Solid knowledge of Scrum and SAFe, Scaled Agile Framework
Practical/hands on experience with Teradata, Hive, Hadoop/HDFS, Ab Initio, Python, design patterns supporting Data Warehouse, ETL, Business Intelligence Reporting.
Solid knowledge of data modeling and data management including working experience with third normal form and dimensional modeling.
Minimum Qualifications
A bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or a related field, or its equivalent in work experience, and five years of programming/development experience.

Education, Work Experience & Knowledge
Bachelor’s degree in a related field preferred or equivalent work experience. 5 to 7 years of technology related experience required.

Job Specific & Technical Skills & Competencies
Strong communication skills include both written and verbal. Technology awareness and the capability to interact with senior leadership is a must.

Has expert knowledge of at least one application discipline, along with the ability to rapidly learn technical and business concepts relevant to the systems supported. Possesses a working knowledge of the business and/or technical environments in which the system operates and a solid knowledge of the business function supported. Demonstrates the desire and aptitude to become the expert in one or more technical disciplines and applies substantial effort to gaining more knowledge in that area. Familiar/experience with architecture frameworks and software design patterns.

Problem Solving & Decision Making: Designs technically feasible solutions for moderately complex problems. Uses innovative insights and creativity in evaluating alternatives. Demonstrates advanced ability to research and analyze business requirements and develop designs for the system supported. Differentiates problem definition from symptoms.

Team Orientation: Builds relationships with peers and other departments to achieve objectives. Highly collaborative. Confident working in a multi-site, multi-shore, matrixed organization. Balances team/individual responsibilities. Exhibits objectivity and openness to others’ views. Respectful and accepting of the decision-making process and resulting decisions. Gives and welcomes feedback. Puts success of team above own interest.

Flexibility: Must be comfortable pivoting mid-course to address new information and adapt to change.

Commitment to Quality Result: Works effectively with business unit to gain insight on requirements and present results of analysis. Works with management to establish schedules. Places high priority on design deliverables and consistently meets scheduled/published delivery dates. Handles business contacts with clear, concise communication in business terms. Adjusts to changing priorities. Demonstrates attitude of willingness, cooperation, and concern for business issues.
Planning and Project Management: Sets appropriate goals and priorities. Completes multiple tasks in the time allocated to accomplish results. Accurately evaluates and estimates new tasks. Provides management with accurate and timely status information.

Familiarity with Cloud computing.

Consistent delivery of high-quality work, on time and with little supervision.
