Job Summary
Innovation is at the core of everything we do. We continue to ask ourselves, “what’s next?” as we navigate the ever-changing insurance landscape. Continuing our journey toward the cutting-edge, we are looking for a forward-thinking individual that thrives in ambiguity, who believes that with every challenge comes a new opportunity for solutions. Thought leaders in the field of Data Science in emerging technology are at the core what we strive for to deliver business impact across the enterprise. In this role, you will work with a multidisciplinary team to design, develop & create analytical solutions through applications of Data Mining, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Emerging Technologies. The ideal candidate will increase the maturity of the group’s current analytical capabilities by progressing from traditional Predictive Modeling to true machine intelligence, and take advantage of emerging technologies around Data Science and AI. This role thrives on change, exercises influence across the enterprise and can make sense of uncertainty. This candidate will be expected to be hands on as well as guide and mentor new modelers in the team.

Primary Job Duties & Responsibilities

Understand business needs and apply Data Science/AI/Machine Learning technology to solve real-world business problems within and across business areas Ability to build and optimize models using machine learning techniques including feature selection & engineering, boosting, deep learning and ensembles
Address pain points of the business and provide additional insights across domains like Regression, Classification, Machine Vision, Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, and/or statistical modeling
As a technical lead candidate will be working with various cross functional teams across the enterprise such as data engineers, data scientists, statisticians, actuaries, application developers, and several other key leadership roles
Analyze source data, working with structured and unstructured data (internal and external data)
Manipulate high-volume, high-dimensionality data from varying sources to highlight patterns, anomalies, relationships, and trends
Extend company’s data with third party sources of information when needed
Will manage one or more initiatives simultaneously across Lines of Businesses and/or functions
Understands Enterprise business needs and applies AI/Machine Learning technology to solve real-world problems that benefit horizontal goals & objectives
Present analysis and recommendations to a diverse group of enterprise-wide stakeholders.
Potential to manage employees
Minimum Qualifications
PhD STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) degree with 1 years experience or Masters STEM degree with 4 years experience or Bachelor’s STEM degree with 6 yrs required. Moderate working knowledge of modeling/research/analytics or actuarial required. Relevant statistical analysis work experience required.

Education, Work Experience & Knowledge
Relevant work experience in research and/or advanced analytic work (e.g. predictive modeling) in the insurance industry preferred.

Job Specific & Technical Skills & Competencies

Ability to read/revise/review a statistical software program (e.g. R, SAS, SPSS).
Ability to develop advanced models and interpret model results.
Understanding of advanced statistics underlying data models. Ability to apply emerging statistical procedures to work.
Willingness to innovate with the possibility of failure.
Strong communication, collaboration and relationship building skills with the ability to present and translate complex information to very senior leadership and non-technical teams in relevant business terms.
Exhibits high levels of learning agility in which they seek out and learn from unfamiliar experiences and then apply those lessons to succeed in the next new situation.
Ability to leverage business knowledge to determine approaches to execution.
Ability to take action in solving problems while exhibiting judgment and a realistic understanding of issues; ability to use reason; review facts, identify inconsistencies and weigh options; ability to make logical and timely decisions that address the right issues.
Preferred Qualifications

2+ years of experience in one or more of the following: Machine Learning Libraries, Computer Vision, Speech Recognition and Natural Language Processing
4+ years of experience in programming with Python and/or R
2+ years of experience in handling data and working with database tools, e.g., SQL, Hadoop or Spark
Proven ability to work creatively and analytically in a problem-solving environment
Experience with Deep Learning Tools such as TensorFlow
Experience with contributing to open source projects
