Job Summary

Innovation is at the core of everything we do. We continue to ask ourselves, 'what's next?' as we navigate the ever-changing insurance landscape. Continuing our journey toward the cutting-edge, we are looking for a forward-thinking individual that thrives in ambiguity, who believes that with every challenge comes a new opportunity for solutions. Thought leaders in the field of Data Science in emerging technology are at the core what we strive for to deliver business impact across the enterprise. In this role, you will be responsible for a small team using ingenuity and innovation to complete complex and high impact data-oriented projects.

The ideal candidate will increase the maturity of the group's current analytical capabilities by progressing from traditional Predictive Modeling to true machine intelligence and take advantage of emerging technologies around Data Science and AI. This role thrives on change, exercises influence across the enterprise and can make sense of uncertainty.

Primary Job Duties & Responsibilities
Deeply understands Enterprise business needs and applies AI/Machine Learning technology to solve real-world problems that benefit horizontal goals & objectives
Organization of large datasets in order to get actionable insights from them to find new data sources and innovative usage of existing data.
Collecting data from various sources with our developing Data Ecosystem from web APIs to internal databases and unstructured data
Carry out exploratory data and statistical analysis so you can lead the team to navigate horizontal datasets, data assets, data lakes, etc., and come out with conclusions based on some initial appraisal with estimated business benefit and associated KPI's to measure success.
Use algorithms, statistics and programming to efficiently parse through large datasets and apply treatments, filters and conditions to our team's data.
Gather and process raw data at scale including writing scripts, web scraping, calling APIs, write SQL queries, etc.
Build and maintain robust data pipelines within our ecosystem to deliver internal and 3rd party datasets as required
Lead in the integration with 3rd party (external) party data providers
Work closely with our key business sponsors and our extended business partners to ensure solutions have relevance and enable effective decision making for broad and scalable measurable business impact.
Lead the team in horizon scans to stay up to date with latest technology, techniques and methods. Demonstrating a mindset of 'buying' what is commodity and 'building' what is our differentiators.
Present analysis and recommendations to a diverse group of enterprise-wide stakeholders


Minimum Qualifications

PhD STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) degree with 2 years experience or Masters STEM degree with 5 years experience or Bachelor's STEM degree with 7 yrs or Bachelor's degree with FCAS designation and 4 years relevant progressive statistical analysis work experience required. Advanced working knowledge of modeling/research/analytics or actuarial required. Relevant statistical analysis work experience required.

Education, Work Experience & Knowledge

Skills Needed
Programming Languages: Python and/or R
Database tools: SQL, Hadoop, Hive or Spark
Deep Learning Tools such as TensorFlow
Experience in one or more of the following: Machine Learning Libraries, Computer Vision, Speech Recognition and Natural Language Processing
Experience with contributing to open source projects
Experience with Cloud architecture and Cloud security solutions
Experience with Big Data analytics, semantic ontologies, and natural language processing


Job Specific & Technical Skills & Competencies
Deep technical knowledge: You have performed and led extensive work in machine learning, artificial intelligence, advanced computing, human-computer interaction, computer vision, machine emotional intelligence, augmented and virtual reality, or related fields. You have worked with tools, software, and programming languages associated with your field.

Statistics: Understanding of advanced statistics underlying data models. Ability to apply new statistical procedures to work. Demonstrates excellent ability and knowledge of database principles, data profiling, statistics and insurance-related data modeling and can apply this knowledge in the most complex situations.

Research and advanced technology practices and publications: You have a track record that includes leading research, applying scientific methods, and developing advanced technologies. You have a reputation for the highest level of integrity. You have demonstrated technical contributions and have published your work across multiple fields.

Preferred Qualifications
Advanced degree (Ph. D. or MS) in Mathematics/Statistics/Machine Learning/Computer Science and/or other quantitative fields
Proficiency in Statistical Modeling and Machine Learning tools, e.g. SAS, Python, R
